index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# Workshop Description

In this 6-hour workshop, you will learn how to leverage modern Python features and techniques to enhance your data science code. Python has emerged as the go-to language for data science and analysis, and its evolution has introduced powerful capabilities such as abstract classes, generic programming, and generators. While data scientists are proficient in using Python, they can significantly boost their productivity and programming skills by embracing these modern language features.

The workshop will provide hands-on instruction, utilizing Google Colab workbooks that come preloaded with the necessary libraries, eliminating the need for software installations or configurations. You will explore real-world examples of applying modern Python features to data science tasks and engage in problem-solving exercises during the session. Some of the key Python features covered include classes and inheritance, dataclasses and immutability, abstract classes and interfaces, type hints and static typing, generic programming, first-class functions and lambdas, as well as iterators and generators. Join us to unlock the full potential of Python for data science and elevate your coding proficiency. 

No software installations or configurations will be required as the entire workshop will be done using Google Colab workbooks that will come with all required libraries loaded.

## About the Instructors

![Ashwin Rao](/assets/img/ashwin-profile.png){:style="max-width:30%;"}

[Ashwin Rao][ashwin] is the Co-Founder of CX Score, a seed-stage AI startup that builds products enabling enterprises to provide great customer experience on their web and mobile apps. Ashwin is also an Adjunct Professor at Stanford University, focusing his research and teaching in the area of Stochastic Control, particularly Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms with applications in Finance and Retail. He teaches Stanford CME 241, which is based on the RL for Finance book he wrote with Tikhon Jelvis. Previously, Ashwin led Data Science and Machine Learning at Target, where he and his team developed mathematical models and algorithms for supply-chain and logistics, merchandising, marketing, search, personalization, pricing and customer service. Before that, Ashwin was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley and a Trading Strategist at Goldman Sachs. Ashwin holds a Bachelors degree in Computer Science and Engineering from IIT-Bombay and a Ph.D in Computer Science from University of Southern California, where he specialized in Algorithms Theory and Abstract Algebra.

[ashwin]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ashwin2rao

![Tikhon Jelvis](/assets/img/tikhon-profile.png){:style="max-width:30%;"}

[Tikhon Jelvis][tikhon] is a founding engineer at CX Score, a seed-stage startup that builds products enabling enterprises to provide great customer experience on their web and mobile apps. Tikhon specializes in bringing ideas from programming languages and functional programming to machine learning and data science. He has developed inventory optimization, simulation and demand forecasting systems as a Principal Scientist at Target. He is a speaker and open-source contributor in the Haskell community, where he is the chair of the Haskell.org committee. Tikhon has co-authored a book on the Foundations of Reinforcement Learning with Stanford faculty Ashwin Rao, where he developed a modern Python framework for data science and machine learning.

[tikhon]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/tikhon-jelvis

# Workshop Materials

## Schedule

#### Session 1 (8:00 - 11:00 AM PST)

We'll look at how to abstract over computation: how can we organize code for algorithms?

  - Intro
  - Iterative Algorithms
  - Iterators
  - Generators
  - Iterator Operations
  - First-Class Functions
  
#### Session 2 (8:00 - 11:00 AM PST)

We'll look at how to abstract over data: how do we structure the data our code works with?

Commit message:

Added Tianyu profile picture + bio

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# Workshop Description

In this 6-hour workshop, you will learn how to leverage modern Python features and techniques to enhance your data science code. Python has emerged as the go-to language for data science and analysis, and its evolution has introduced powerful capabilities such as abstract classes, generic programming, and generators. While data scientists are proficient in using Python, they can significantly boost their productivity and programming skills by embracing these modern language features.

The workshop will provide hands-on instruction, utilizing Google Colab workbooks that come preloaded with the necessary libraries, eliminating the need for software installations or configurations. You will explore real-world examples of applying modern Python features to data science tasks and engage in problem-solving exercises during the session. Some of the key Python features covered include classes and inheritance, dataclasses and immutability, abstract classes and interfaces, type hints and static typing, generic programming, first-class functions and lambdas, as well as iterators and generators. Join us to unlock the full potential of Python for data science and elevate your coding proficiency. 

No software installations or configurations will be required as the entire workshop will be done using Google Colab workbooks that will come with all required libraries loaded.

## About the Instructors

![Ashwin Rao](/assets/img/ashwin-profile.png){:style="max-width:30%;"}

[Ashwin Rao][ashwin] is the Co-Founder of CX Score, a seed-stage AI startup that builds products enabling enterprises to provide great customer experience on their web and mobile apps. Ashwin is also an Adjunct Professor at Stanford University, focusing his research and teaching in the area of Stochastic Control, particularly Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms with applications in Finance and Retail. He teaches Stanford CME 241, which is based on the RL for Finance book he wrote with Tikhon Jelvis. Previously, Ashwin led Data Science and Machine Learning at Target, where he and his team developed mathematical models and algorithms for supply-chain and logistics, merchandising, marketing, search, personalization, pricing and customer service. Before that, Ashwin was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley and a Trading Strategist at Goldman Sachs. Ashwin holds a Bachelors degree in Computer Science and Engineering from IIT-Bombay and a Ph.D in Computer Science from University of Southern California, where he specialized in Algorithms Theory and Abstract Algebra.

[ashwin]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ashwin2rao

![Tikhon Jelvis](/assets/img/tikhon-profile.png){:style="max-width:30%;"}

[Tikhon Jelvis][tikhon] is a founding engineer at CX Score, a seed-stage startup that builds products enabling enterprises to provide great customer experience on their web and mobile apps. Tikhon specializes in bringing ideas from programming languages and functional programming to machine learning and data science. He has developed inventory optimization, simulation and demand forecasting systems as a Principal Scientist at Target. He is a speaker and open-source contributor in the Haskell community, where he is the chair of the Haskell.org committee. Tikhon has co-authored a book on the Foundations of Reinforcement Learning with Stanford faculty Ashwin Rao, where he developed a modern Python framework for data science and machine learning.

[tikhon]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/tikhon-jelvis

![Tianyu](/assets/img/tianyu-profile.jpg){:style="max-width:30%;"}

Tianyu is a Ph.D. student in the Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (ICME) at Stanford University working with Prof. Susan Athey and Prof. Daniel McFarland. After receiving his Bachelor's degree in economics and mathematics at University of Toronto, Tianyu received his master's degree in Management Science and Engineering (MS&E) at Stanford. His research has focused on the application of machine learning methods on social sciences such as career trajectories of workers.

# Workshop Materials

## Schedule

#### Session 1 (8:00 - 11:00 AM PST)

We'll look at how to abstract over computation: how can we organize code for algorithms?

  - Intro
  - Iterative Algorithms
  - Iterators
  - Generators
  - Iterator Operations
  - First-Class Functions
  
#### Session 2 (8:00 - 11:00 AM PST)

We'll look at how to abstract over data: how do we structure the data our code works with?
